Design pattern                          Software component
Service discovery                       Netflix Eureka and Spring Cloud LoadBalancer
Edge server                             Spring Cloud Gateway and Spring Security OAuth
Centralized configuration               Spring Cloud Configuration Server
Circuit breaker                         Resilience4j
Distributed tracing                     Spring Cloud Sleuth and Zipkin

Relying on the Reactor project, you’ll adopt stability patterns like retries,
timeouts, and failovers.The Reactive Manifesto (www.reactivemanifesto.org) describes
a reactive system as responsive, resilient, elastic, and message-driven.
Its mission to build loosely coupled, scalable,resilient, and cost-effective
applications is fully compatible with our definition of cloud native.
The new part is achieving that goal by using an asynchronous and non-blocking
communication paradigm based on message-passing.

Resilience is about keeping a system available and delivering
its services, even when failures happen. Since failures will
happen, and there’s no way to prevent them all, it is critical to
design fault-tolerant applications. The goal is to keep the
system available without the user noticing any failures. In the
worst-case scenario, the system may have degraded
functionality (graceful degradation), but it should still be
available.The critical point in achieving resilience (or fault-tolerance) is
keeping the faulty component isolated until the fault is fixed.
Integration points between application services should be carefully guarded and
made resilient to failures affecting the other party.
One solution is using Reactive Spring to configure timeouts, retries, and fallbacks.
Alternatively, we may use tools such as Resilience4J and Spring Cloud Circuit Breaker.

A better approach is using an exponential backoff strategy to
perform each retry attempt with a growing delay. By waiting
for more and more time between one attempt and the next,
you’re more likely to give the backing service time to recover
and become responsive again. The strategy for computing the
delay can be configured.

You shouldn’t retry non-idempotent requests,
or you’ll risk generating inconsistent states. When you order a
book, you don’t want to be charged multiple times just because
the first attempt failed due to the response being lost in the
network and never received.

Retries are a helpful pattern whenever the service downstream
is momentarily unavailable or slow due to overloading, but it’s
likely to heal soon. In this case, you should limit the number of
retries and use exponential backoff to prevent adding extra
load on an already overloaded service. On the other hand, you
shouldn’t retry the request if the service fails with a recurrent
error, such as if it’s entirely down or returns an acceptable
error like 404.

One of the essential features of reactive applications is that
they provide non-blocking backpressure (also called control
flow). This means that consumers can control the amount of
data they receive, which lowers the risk of producers sending
more data than consumers can handle, which can cause a DoS
attack, slowing the application, cascading the failure, or even
leading to a total crash.

For Polar Bookshop, we’ll use a solution based on the
Grafana observability stack (https://grafana.com). It’s
composed of open source technologies, and you can
run it yourself in any environment. It’s also available
as a managed service (Grafana Cloud) offered by
Grafana Labs.

The components of the Grafana stack we’ll use for
managing logs are Loki for log storage and search,
Fluent Bit for log collection and aggregation, and
Grafana for log data visualization and querying.

There are a few viable solutions for protecting the
Spring Boot Actuator endpoints. For example, you
could enable HTTP Basic authentication just for the
Actuator endpoints, while all the others will keep using
OpenID Connect and OAuth2.
